an Israeli delegation has arrived in
Cairo Egypt ahead of peace talks aimed
at ending 10 months of war in Gaza
negotiations are set to resume Saturday
us Egyptian and Qatari mediators are
trying to salvage a deal that would
pause the fighting and free the
remaining hostages held by Hamas which
you may remember committed the October
7th Terror attacks in Israel meanwhile
Israel has been keeping up its attacks
in Gaza Palestinian Health officials say
at least 27 people have been killed
there in the last
day packing up their lives again as
Israel Issues new evacuation
orders for these garans uprooted once
more in Han Yunis life seems
hopeless the Israeli Army tells us to
evacuate from one area to another and
this is our situation in Gaza there's no
hope in the negotiations even with Qatar
and the Egyptians there's no hope their
role is that of mediators not pressuring
Israel and here we are the civilians
paying the
price Palestinian Health officials say
Israeli attacks have killed dozens more
people throughout the strip in the last
day the house was blown up and everyone
inside children men women it's as if the
house had never been built it's like it
never existed
prayers for any ceasefire to save
civilian lives go
unanswered many gazans are exhausted by
suffering and desperate for an end to
the
fighting I'm begging them to reach an
agreement we're being slaughtered Israel
is fighting for its people and Hamas is
fighting for its people enough is enough
they both need to make concessions our
children are gone how can we return to
our homes without our
children both Hamas and Israel accuse
the other of blocking any potential
truce control of gaza's border with
Egypt an area known as the Philadelphia
Corridor remains a red line for
Israel the Philadelphia Corridor the
border between Egypt and Israel the
Hamas Lifeline of terrorist smuggling is
so crucial so report that the Prime
Minister has agreed that Israel will
withdraw from the Philadelphia uh
Corridor are incorrect Israel says its
attacks are the best way to put pressure
on Hamas to release hostages taken in
the October 7th terrorist attacks but
with Gaza already in Ruins and tens of
thousands of civilians dead the
Palestinian militant group still hasn't
been broken DW correspondent Felix tomsu
joins me now from Jerusalem Felix what
more do we know at this
point um that's an interesting question
because at the moment we were up until I
would say two hours ago we were all
under the impression that those talks
are not going to take place at all we've
heard reports yesterday saying that the
talks are on the brink of collapse
according to uh us sources uh now just
an hour ago Israeli media have been
reporting that
uh the Israeli negotiations team is
currently in Cairo with the idea of
negotiating um Sol or finding a solution
to uh some of the core issues um this
meeting on Saturday which uh many people
hold their hopes on is not yet final
it's not yet sure that it's going to
take place but the Israeli cabinet uh is
to meet tonight and um it's very likely
that we will know more after this
Israeli cabinet meeting we do know that
one of the main sticking points in the
ceasefire talks has been and remains
control over the Gaza Egypt border that
Israel wants to maintain um is there any
update on that
tonight indeed uh some of the reports
coming out uh in Israel tonight uh say
that the Israeli negotiation team has
returned to Egypt has returned to the
negotiations with the mediators with an
uh upto-date offer when it comes to the
uh Israeli presence in the so-called
Philadelphia uh area on the border
between Gaza and Egypt um this Corridor
is basically at the core of the
differences between both sides whereas
um where we have Israel wanting to keep
their presence there um Israel argues
that this is a main uh Lifeline of uh
smuggling goods for Hamas whereas Hamas
insists on no Israeli presence there uh
the current offer according to sources
in Israel um is that Israel will
evacuate its forces only in the second
phase of the deal meaning after 40
something days um it's going to be
interesting how this pans out but it
needs to be said at the moment we don't
know whether Hamas is going to take
place we don't know what Hamas thinks of
this offer um and negotiations are in a
very very critical point yeah you can
say that again DW correspondent Felix
Thomson with the latest from Jerusalem
Felix thank you